webgl-realidade-aumentada
=========================
First Work Motivation: Augmented Reality (AR) is a visualization mode where virtual objects are mixed or combined with real scenes [1]. This combination is mainly aimed at adding information within the context of the real environment where the user is immersed. One of the major problems of AR is the alignment of virtual objects within the image of the real scene. For this, information about the camera used to acquire the image as well as the location of the object to be added to the scene must be known. The idea is that once the camera and the location of the object are known, we can, using CG techniques, synthesize an image of the object compatible with the real scene and superimpose that image on the scene in a realistic way. The location of the object can be defined from a marker, that is, a recognizable pattern within the scene that the AR application will seek. From the position of the marker it is then possible to place the real object relative to it (Figure 1a). It is also possible to use references within the image itself to locate where the virtual objects will be added (Figure 1b). Several libraries provide the necessary calculations for the identification and alignment of reference objects in the real scene, such as ARToolkit [3] and ArUco [4]. With the use of these libraries the job of creating an application in AR becomes the rendering of the virtual models that will compose the real scene. The visualization of the enlarged real scene can be done in several ways: through a monitor (Figure 1a) or the screen of a mobile device (Figure 1b) or even using specific devices, such as Google Glass (Figure 1c).
